docs(concepts): revise system anatomy section (#610)
akka/akka-sdk: docs/src/modules/concepts/pages/concepts.adoc

Batteries-included:: Includes orchestration, runtimes, and distributed state management.
Production-ready:: No code changes required to move from development to production.

== Anatomy of an Agentic system

An agentic system is a distributed system that requires a variety of behaviors and infrastructure.

image:concepts:agentic-ai-system-anatomy.png[Akka Agentic Platform]

[cols="1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Aspect |AI Role and Responsibility

|Agents
|Components that integrate with AI to perceive their environment, make decisions and take actions toward a specific goal

> You implement agents in Akka with the xref:java:agents.adoc[Agents] component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You implement agents in Akka with the xref:java:agents.adoc[Agent] component.
```

|Tools

> |Any public method made available to Model Context Protocol (MCP) clients.

Reviewer: This is misleading, or unclear. Tools can either be local methods or provided by remote MCP servers.

You invoke tools in Akka through _embedded agent function calls_ or by _invoking a remote MCP tool_. You can implement MCP servers with the xref:java:mcp-endpoints.adoc[MCP Endpoints] component.

|Endpoints
|Externally accessible entry points through which agents are launched and controlled.

> You implement Endpoints in Akka using either xref:java:http-endpoints.adoc[HTTP], xref:java:grpc-endpoints.adoc[gRPC] or xref:java:mcp-endpoints.adoc[MCP] protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You implement Endpoints in Akka using either xref:java:http-endpoints.adoc[HTTP], xref:java:grpc-endpoints.adoc[gRPC] or xref:java:mcp-endpoints.adoc[MCP] endpoint components.
```

Reviewer: otherwise it might sound like you have to implement the protocols yourself

You implement agents in Akka with the xref:java:agents.adoc[Agents] component.

|Tools
|Any public method made available to Model Context Protocol (MCP) clients.

You invoke tools in Akka through _embedded agent function calls_ or by _invoking a remote MCP tool_. You can implement MCP servers with the xref:java:mcp-endpoints.adoc[MCP Endpoints] component.

|Endpoints
|Externally accessible entry points through which agents are launched and controlled.

You implement Endpoints in Akka using either xref:java:http-endpoints.adoc[HTTP], xref:java:grpc-endpoints.adoc[gRPC] or xref:java:mcp-endpoints.adoc[MCP] protocols.

|Goals
|Clear objectives or outcomes that agents continuously work toward by making decisions and taking actions on their own.

You implement goals in Akka by implementing a multi-agent system _with a planner agent_ using a xref:java:workflows.adoc[Workflow] component to orchestrate the cross-agent interactions.

|Guardians
|Components that monitor, protect and evaluate the system against its goals and constraints. 

You implement guardians in Akka by...

> ifdef::todo[TODO: get some thoughts from Patrik on this]

Author: @patriknw Tyler asked for your input here

Reviewer: This is difficult, because we haven't implemented any support for evaluations yet, and don't have a clear picture of how it will look like. Maybe you can pick something from https://doc.akka.io/snapshots/akka-documentation/java/agents.html#_evaluating_ai_model_quality

You implement adaptation in Akka by processing a stream of data from external sensors, either with the xref:java:consuming-producing.adoc[Consumer] component or through streaming HTTP or gRPC interfaces. xref:java:consuming-producing.adoc[Consumers] can modify an agent’s goals, memory, or guardians to affect the behavior of the system.

|Orchestration
|The ability to execute, persist and recover long-running tasks made possible through _durable execution_.

You implement orchestration in Akka with the xref:java:workflows.adoc[Workflow] component.

|Memory
|Data that enables agents to reason over time, track context, make correct decisions and learn from experience.

You inherit agentic and episodic (short-term) durable memory automatically when you implement a stateful xref:java:agents.adoc[Agent] component. You can get long-term, multi-agent memory by implementing xref:java:event-sourced-entities.adoc[Event Sourced Entity] or xref:java:key-value-entities.adoc[Key Value Entity] components.

|Registry
|A built-in directory that stores information about all agents so they can be discovered and called upon in multi-agent systems.

You implement a registry in Akka by... 

> ifdef::todo[TODO: We need to talk to Patrik about this...]

Author: @patriknw Tyler asked for your input here

Reviewer: You don't implement the agent registry. It's provided by the SDK, but you would give the agent components meaningful names and descriptions with an annotation. It's mentioned here https://doc.akka.io/snapshots/akka-documentation/java/agents.html#_creating_dynamic_plans
